STATE OF CONNECTICUT
BY HIS EXCELLENCY
NED LAMONT
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14F

PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY DURING COVID-19
PANDEMIC – PROOF OF VACCINATION BOOSTER OR TESTING FOR
NURSING HOME VISITORS AND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ESSENTIAL
SUPPORT PERSONS
WHEREAS, on March 10, 2020, I declared public health and civil preparedness
emergencies throughout the State of Connecticut in response to the coronavirus disease 2019
(COVID-19) outbreak caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus in the United States and
Connecticut; and
WHEREAS, on several occasions since March 10, 2020, acting within my authority
pursuant to Sections 19a-131 and 28-9 of the Connecticut General Statutes as well as Special
Acts 21-2, 21-4, and 21-5 of the General Assembly, and in response to the continued need
to respond adequately to the COVID-19 pandemic, I renewed the declarations of public
health and civil preparedness emergencies and also issued new declarations of public health
and civil preparedness emergencies; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to such declarations, I have issued executive orders to protect public
health, limit transmission of COVID-19, and mitigate the effects of the COVID-19
pandemic; and
WHEREAS, COVID-19 is a respiratory disease that spreads easily from person to person
and may result in serious illness or death; and
WHEREAS, the World Health Organization has declared the COVID-19 outbreak a
pandemic; and
WHEREAS, COVID-19 presents increased risk of severe illness, complications, and death
to older adults and particularly those with chronic conditions; and
WHEREAS, the omicron variant of COVID-19 is highly contagious and spreads more
easily and quickly than other COVID-19 variants; and

WHEREAS, the highly transmissible omicron variant has caused COVID-19 infections to
rapidly increase within the United States and Connecticut; and
WHEREAS, given the greater transmissibility of the omicron variant, the risk of outbreaks
in nursing homes is of significant concern given the medical vulnerability of residents in
such settings; and
WHEREAS, the impact of COVID-19 outbreaks in nursing homes may be devastating
based on the experience from prior COVID-19 surge periods where residents of nursing
homes and persons over 65 experienced the highest morbidity rates; and
WHEREAS, vaccination is the most effective means of preventing infection,
hospitalization, and death from COVID-19 and of limiting transmission and outbreaks of the
disease, and is therefore a critical tool to respond to and slow the ongoing pandemic; and
WHEREAS, while currently available vaccines continue to protect against severe illness,
hospitalizations, and deaths resulting from infection with the omicron variant, public health
experts are seeing waning protection over time especially in people 65 years and older, and
in response have recommended that vaccinated individuals receive a booster dose; and
WHEREAS, according to the CDC, data from clinical trials shows that a vaccine booster
increases the immune response in trial participants who finished a Pfizer-BioNTech or
Moderna primary series 5 months earlier or who received a J&J/Janssen single-dose vaccine
2 months earlier and with an increased immune response, people should have improved
protection against getting infected with COVID-19; and
WHEREAS, the state and nursing homes have made great progress in administering booster
vaccines to nursing home residents, with 74% of nursing home residents with complete
primary COVID-19 vaccination having received a booster vaccine as of January 9, 2022;
and
WHEREAS, while Connecticut has made significant progress in administering vaccines to
Connecticut residents there is a lag in booster vaccines, with only about 44% of eligible
residents having received a booster vaccine; and
WHEREAS, as of this week, of the 1,819 patients currently hospitalized with laboratoryconfirmed COVID-19, 1,233 (67.8%) are not fully vaccinated; and
WHEREAS, during the holiday season, when visitation is particularly high, positive
COVID-19 cases in nursing homes increased nearly 700% from 84 confirmed cases for the
week of December 15 to December 21, 2021 to 679 cases for the week of December 29,
2021 to January 4, 2022; and
WHEREAS, because of the spike of COVID-19 infections amongst the public and within
nursing homes, public health officials have recommended that visitors to nursing homes

present proof that they are either fully vaccinated and have received a booster vaccination,
if eligible, or have tested negative for COVID-19 to mitigate the opportunity for visitors to
introduce COVID-19 into nursing homes; and
WHEREAS, Section 19a-550(b)(12) of the Connecticut General Statutes provides nursing
home residents with a right to associate privately with persons of the patient’s choice; and
WHEREAS, Public Act 21-71 provides that a “long-term care facility resident, or a resident
representative, may designate a primary essential support person and a secondary essential
support person who may visit the resident despite general visitation restrictions imposed on
other visitors, provided the primary essential support person or secondary essential support
person complies with any rules promulgated by the Commissioner of Public Health pursuant
to section 2 of this act to protect the health, safety and well-being of long-term care facility
residents”; and
WHEREAS, the Commissioner of Public Health, by the authority provided in Executive
Order 13A, presently requires all visitors, regardless of vaccination status, to wear a mask
when in a nursing home (in compliance with, and as required by, the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services (CMS)); and
WHEREAS, CMS requires visitors to nursing homes located in counties with high
transmission levels of COVID-19 to wear masks, regardless of vaccination status, and to
physically distance themselves from other residents and staff when in a communal area in
the nursing home; and
WHEREAS, public health experts advise visitors to wear a well-fitting mask, preferably an
N95, KN95, or surgical mask; and
WHEREAS, while nursing home residents have a right to receive visitors, and designate
primary and secondary essential support persons, it is reasonable and necessary during the
present spike in COVID-19 cases to require visitors to continue to wear a mask and show
that they have received a booster vaccine, if eligible, or proof of a negative COVID-19 test
to protect the public health of nursing home residents;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, NED LAMONT, Governor of the State of Connecticut, by virtue
of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Connecticut,
do hereby ORDER AND DIRECT:
1. Definitions. For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:
a. “Nursing home” means any facility, agency or provider that is a nursing
home, as defined in Section 19a-521 of the Connecticut General
Statutes.

b. “Visitor” means and includes family members, friends, or other persons
who visit a nursing home or who enter a nursing home to engage in a
face-to-face interaction with a nursing home resident.
c. “Primary Essential Support Person” and “Secondary Essential Support
Person” shall have the meanings set forth in Public Act 21-7.
d. “Fully vaccinated” means at least 14 days have elapsed since a person
has received the final dose of a vaccine approved for use against
COVID-19 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), or as
otherwise defined by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC).
2. Proof of Vaccination Booster or Testing for Visitors and Primary and
Secondary Essential Support Persons. Notwithstanding Section 19a550(b)(12) of the Connecticut General Statutes or any other statute, regulation,
local rule or ordinance or provision of law, a nursing home shall require a
visitor or primary or secondary essential support person prior to visiting a
nursing home resident to either:
a. provide proof that they are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and, if
eligible under FDA or CDC guidance, have received a COVID-19
vaccine booster; or
b. provide paper or electronic proof of a negative COVID-19 test result
from either:
i. a rapid antigen test completed within the previous forty-eight
hours; or
ii. a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test completed within the
previous seventy-two hours; or
c. take a rapid antigen test at the nursing home in a form and manner as
directed by the Department of Public Health.
3. Visitation Restrictions. Notwithstanding Section 19a-550(b)(12) of the
Connecticut General Statutes or any other statute, regulation, local rule or
ordinance or provision of law, a nursing home shall deny entrance to any visitor
or primary or secondary essential support person that tests positive for COVID19 or who refuses to take a rapid antigen test provided by the nursing home. A
nursing home shall not deny entrance to any visitor or primary or secondary

essential support person who is willing to take a rapid antigen test at the nursing
home to comply with Section 2 above but is unable to because the nursing
home is not able to provide a rapid antigen test.
4. Test Distribution. If a nursing home is in possession of rapid antigen tests that
are not otherwise designated for use by the nursing home to comply with state
or federal regulatory testing requirements of the nursing home’s staff, the
nursing home shall make the rapid antigen test available to visitors who do not
meet the requirements of section 2a or 2b.
5. DPH Rules Implementing Order. The Commissioner of the Department of
Public Health may issue any order or written guidance which may be imposed
without adoption of such requirements by regulation in accordance with
Chapter 54 of the Connecticut General Statutes to implement this order.

This order shall take effect on Saturday, January 22, 2022 and remain in effect through
February 15, 2022.
Dated at Hartford, Connecticut, this 19th day of January, 2022.

Ned Lamont
Governor

By His Excellency’s Command

__________________________
Denise W. Merrill
Secretary of the State

