STATE OF CONNECTICUT
,,- , " JON/~ECTICUT
BY HIS EXCELLENCY
;;.:.Ch<; !~~ ~-~ 9~ THE STATE
NED LAMONT
1_ : • • •
. rlCE

ZDZG AP~ I 6 p

12: ?f-ECUTIVE ORDER NO. 26-3

WHEREAS, Connecticut's public elementary and secondary schools prepare young people to
enroll in higher education, succeed in the labor market, and engage as inf01med citizens; and
WHEREAS, all school-aged children tlu-oughout Connecticut deserve access to high quality
educational opportunities; and
WHEREAS, a well-educated workforce is an important driver of economic development; and
WHEREAS, state law charges each Connecticut municipality with the responsibility of
providing a public-school educational opportunity to all its school-age residents; and
WHEREAS, the State's public K-12 education system is operated by local and regional school
districts, regional educational service centers, public chatter schools, endowed academies,
Connecticut Technical Education and Career System, state agencies, and college-affiliated
districts; and
WHEREAS, thanks to the efforts of those paitners, the State of Connecticut is a national leader
in public education; and
WHEREAS, public education is supported through a combination of local, state, and federal
resources; and
WHEREAS, state law has established education programs to support public education,
including the Education Cost Sharing (ECS Fo1mula), Excess Cost, choice funding formulas for
magnet schools, Chatter Schools, Vocational Agriculture and the Open Choice Program, school
based health programs, and other targeted programs to enhance educational outcomes, including
but not limited to the Leamer Engagement and Attendance Program (LEAP), and the newly
established Special Education and Expansion Development Grant (SEED); and
WHEREAS, the efficiency and effectiveness of the largest streams of state education funding,
such as ECS, have not been evaluated holistically for many years;
WHEREAS, stakeholders across Connecticut's K-12 education system ai·e united in a
commitment to ensure that K-12 resources are allocated in an efficient and effective manner
designed to enhance educational outcomes for the Connecticut's students; and
WHEREAS, a successful education system depends upon collaboration, alignment, innovation,
equity, performance accountability, access to sufficient information and data, and a commitment
to addressing barriers to student success wherever possible;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10-262w of the Connecticut General Statutes, the Connecticut
State Depa1iment of Education (CSDE) has developed a Repo1i of the Effectiveness of the
Alliance District Program to inform stakeholder discussion for modifying the program to reflect
the needs of the current educational landscape;

WHEREAS, PA 25-67 and PA 25-93 made several changes to state law regarding special
education and the funding for such services, forming a basis for review and alignment with the
charge of the Commission established below; and
WHEREAS, by collaborating across various interest groups, the State of Connecticut can work
to build a modem and transparent educational funding system that supports continued
improvement in student outcomes, equity, and accountability in communities throughout the
state.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, NED LAMONT, Governor of the State of Connecticut, by virtue of
the power and authority vested in me by the Com1ecticut Constitution and by the statutes of the
State of Connecticut, do hereby ORDER AND DIRECT:

l. There is established the Governor's Blue-Ribbon Commission on K-12 Education
Funding and Accountability ( 11 Conm1ission 11 ). The Commission shall serve as a principal
advisor to the Governor on education funding and related issues and shall coordinate a
comprehensive review of all educational funding in Connecticut. Such review shall look
at the landscape of educational funding in Connecticut, any relevant models from other
states, the primaty cost drivers impacting Connecticut school districts, and proven
strategies for delivering K-12 education that have resulted in improved outcomes and
student success in Connecticut.
2. Based on that review, the Commission shall consider the responsibilities of the state,
local governments, and school boards with respect to K-12 education and make
recommendations on funding strategies, potential areas of efficiency, and accountability
measures to maximize the impact of funding on student outcomes. Such
recommendations shall take into consideration the cost of ongoing operational needs,
strategies to support student success, and ways to increase predictability and
sustainability.
3. The Chairperson shall be designated by the Governor and the Commissioner of Education
shall serve as the Vice Chairperson.
4. The Commission shall include, but not be limited to:
a. Four members of the General Assembly, one designated each by the President Pro
Tempore of the Senate, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Seante Minority
Leader, and house Minority Leader; and
b. Department heads ofrelevant state agencies; and
c. Representatives of boards of education, town governn1ent, district administrators,
state agencies, the legislature, teachers, state and national education funding
expetis, special education directors, regional education service centers, alliance
districts and parents.
5. The Office of the Governor will engage a national educational organization or
organizations to facilitate the conversation and work of the Commission.

6. The work of the Commission will be informed by a variety of sources including but not
limited to:
a. Regional and national expe11s on education funding and district/school
interventions;
b. Connecticut's longitudinal data on all entitlements, including ECS and excess
costs, state and federal grants, and school district expenditures;
c. State and national data on funding as it relates to students' academic outcomes;
d. The Connecticut State Department of Education (CSDE) Report on the
Effectiveness of the Alliance District Program as required by CGS 10-262w;
e. CSDE's work in accordance with PA 25-67 and PA 25-93, with regards to special
education.
7. The Commission shall provide multiple opportunities for additional stakeholder feedback
through regional in-person and virtual sessions. The feedback from these sessions shall
inform the work of the Commission.
8. The Commission shall develop a strategic plan to provide the resources necessary to
support student success throughout the state and hold districts accountable for delivering
high quality educational experiences that provide students with what they need to access
those educational opportunities. The plan shall be informed by state-level data as well as
national studies and shall include recommendations on the current funding systems,
(including but not limited to the ECS Formula, the Alliance District Program, the Excess
Cost Grant and Special Education Development Grants), the organization/structure of
special education services in Connecticut, and cross-district collaboration to address
administrative and program needs across districts. Such plan shall be submitted to the
Governor and the Connecticut General Assembly by January 15, 2027.
9. The Commission will end its charge after the submission of the plan as required by this
order.
This Order shall take effect immediately.
Dated at Hartford, Connecticut, the 16th day of April 2026.

W

~ LA~~

NED LAMONT
Governor
By His Excellency's Order

STEPHANIE THOMAS
Secretary of the State

