STATE OF CONNECTICUT
BY HIS EXCELLENCY
NED LAMONT
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 7OOO
PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY DURING COVID-19 PANDEMIC –
EXTENSION OF EVICTION MORATORIUM AND OUTDOOR DINING EXPANSION,
RESUMPTION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR DEFAULTS AND NONSUITS IN CIVIL AND
FAMILY MATTERS
WHEREAS, on March 10, 2020, I issued a declaration of public health and civil preparedness
emergencies, proclaiming a state of emergency throughout the State of Connecticut as a result of the
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak in the United States and Connecticut; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to such declaration, I have issued sixty-six (66) executive orders to suspend
or modify statutes and to take other actions necessary to protect public health and safety and to
mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; and
WHEREAS, COVID-19 is a respiratory disease that spreads easily from person to person and may
result in serious illness or death; and
WHEREAS, the World Health Organization has declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic; and
WHEREAS, to reduce the spread of COVID-19, the United States Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) and the Connecticut Department of Public Health (DPH) recommend
implementation of community mitigation strategies to slow transmission of COVID-19, including
cancellation of gatherings of ten people or more and social distancing in smaller gatherings; and
WHEREAS, public health experts have determined that it is possible to transmit COVID-19 even
before a person shows symptoms and through aerosol transmission; and
WHEREAS, to provide for safe resumption of economic and social activity with a reduced threat of
transmission of COVID-19, Executive Order No. 7MM, issued May 12, 2020, provided for the
expansion and expedited approval of certain outdoor activities, including restaurant dining and retail
sales; and
WHEREAS, the activities permitted by Executive Order No. 7MM have provided a safe and
successful social outlet and a critically needed economic lifeline to businesses and local communities,
and continuing such activity will provide for safe activity without increased risk of COVID-19
transmission and encourage compliance with necessary safety restrictions that limit other activities;
and

WHEREAS, Executive Order No. 7S extended the period of credit for certain liquor licensees in
recognition of the fact that the prohibition of on-premise food and beverage sales would hinder their
ability to make timely payments to their creditors; and
WHEREAS, the State of Connecticut has allowed businesses with on-premise food and liquor sales
to open by following strict rules to protect public health, thereby better enabling those businesses to
make timely payments to creditors, such that a gradual return to the credit period in place during
normal circumstances is appropriate; and
WHEREAS minimizing evictions during the COVID-19 pandemic is critical to controlling and
reducing the spread of COVID-19 and preventing a resurgence of the disease by allowing residents
to stay home or at their place of residence; and
WHEREAS, in order to keep people safely in their homes and avoid increasing homelessness and
the associated risk of COVID-19 transmission, Executive Order Nos. 7X and 7DDD provided
temporary relief from statutory eviction proceedings; and
WHEREAS, continued economic disruption could increase homelessness and associated risk of
COVID-19 transmission unless certain relief measures provided in those orders are continued; and
WHEREAS, the federal government has found that people dislocated from their homes may be
unable to shelter in place, may have more difficulty maintaining a routine of social distancing, and
will have to find alternative living arrangements that may include a homeless shelter, a crowded
family home, or travel to other states, posing multiple challenges that can exacerbate and amplify the
spread of COVID-19; and
WHEREAS, for those reasons, as declared in certain executive orders issued by the President of the
United States, it is the policy of the United States to minimize, to the greatest extent possible,
residential evictions and foreclosures during the ongoing COVID-19 national emergency; and
WHEREAS, Executive Order No. 7G, Section 2, dated March 19, 2020, suspended all statutory (1)
location or venue requirements; (2) time requirements, statutes of limitation or other limitations or
deadlines relating to service of process, court proceedings or court filings; and (3) all time
requirements or deadlines related to the Supreme, Appellate and Superior courts or their judicial
officials to issue notices, hold court, hear matters and/or render decisions; and
WHEREAS, Executive Order No. 7YY, Section 1, dated June 10, 2020, amended Executive Order
No. 7G, Section 2 to allow the resumption of requirements or deadlines related to Supreme Court or
Appellate Court filings in cases pending before those courts; and
WHEREAS, in consultation with the Chief Court Administrator on behalf of the Chief Justice, I have
determined that the Judicial Branch may safely resume certain additional court operations and
reinstate certain time requirements and deadlines necessary for such resumption; and
WHEREAS, the Judicial Branch intends to issue guidance related to this order in conjunction with
its publication; and

WHEREAS, upon a proclamation that a public health or civil preparedness emergency exists, Section
28-9(b) of the Connecticut General Statutes authorizes the modification or suspension in whole or in
part by executive order of any statute or regulation or requirement or part thereof that conflicts with
the efficient and expeditious execution of civil preparedness functions or the protection of public
health; and
NOW, THEREFORE, I, NED LAMONT, Governor of the State of Connecticut, by virtue of the
authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Connecticut, do hereby
ORDER AND DIRECT:
1. Extension of Expanded Outdoor Dining. All provisions of Executive Order No. 7MM
and any approvals issued under it shall be extended through November 12, 2020.
Extension of any approval for use of a right-of-way owned or controlled by the state shall
be contingent upon approval, as applicable, by the appropriate federal transportation
officials.
2. Modification of the Extension of 30-Day Period of Credit for Liquor Permittees.
Executive Order No. 7S, which addressed the maximum period of credit available to
certain liquor permittees, is amended so that the maximum period of credit shall be sixty
days after the date of delivery for all permittees that were restricted from engaging in onpremise sales per Executive Order No. 7D and its subsequent modifications. The extension
of credit shall not apply to permits that were delinquent at the time Executive Order No.
7D became effective on March 16, 2020. The period of delinquency shall begin on the
sixty-first day after the date of delivery. All other requirements addressing the maximum
period of credit, including Section 30-48(b) of the Connecticut General Statutes and
Sections 30-6-A36 and 30-6-A37a of the Regulations of Connecticut State Agencies, shall
continue to apply, except as modified to reflect the increased period of credit, and the
standard thirty-day period of credit will continue to apply to all permittees whose
businesses were not engaging in on-premise sales at the time Executive Order No. 7D
became effective. This credit extension modification will remain in effect for the duration
of the public health emergency, including any period of renewal, unless earlier modified
or terminated.
3. Extension of Eviction Moratorium. The provisions of Executive Order No. 7X, Section
1, as modified by Executive Order Nos. 7NN, Section 4 and 7DDD, Section 1, shall remain
in effect until October 1, 2020, with the following modifications:
a. No Notice to Quit or Service of Summary Process Before October 1. Section
47a-23 of the Connecticut General Statutes is modified to additionally provide,
“(g) No landlord of a dwelling unit, and no such landlord’s legal representative,
attorney-at-law, or attorney-in-fact, shall, before October 1, 2020, deliver or cause
to be delivered a notice to quit or serve or return a summary process action, for
any reason set forth in this chapter or in sections 21-80 et seq. of the Connecticut

General Statutes, except for nonpayment of rent due on or before February 29,
2020, for serious nuisance as defined in section 47a-15 of the Connecticut General
Statutes, or, provided the notice to quit is not delivered during the term of any
existing rental agreement, for a bona fide intention by the landlord to use such
dwelling unit as such landlord’s principal residence.” All notices to quit for
nonpayment of rent issued before October 1 shall specify and recite the period of
nonpayment of rent before February 29, 2020 for which rent has not been paid. All
notices to quit issued before October 1, 2020 based upon the bona fide intention
by the landlord to use such premises for the landlord’s principal residence shall
state that reason, and specify the date of the expiration of the lease.
b. Extension of Ability to Apply Security Deposit to Rent. The provisions of
Executive Order No. 7DDD, Section 1 concerning application of security deposits
in excess of one month’s rent shall additionally apply to rent due for the month of
September 2020.
4. Suspension of Requirements and Deadlines by Executive Order No. 7G Shall Not
Apply to Defaults and Nonsuits in Civil Matters and in Family Matters. On a schedule
to be determined by the Chief Court Administrator and not later than September 20, 2020,
Executive Order No. 7G, Section 2, dated March 19, 2020, is amended to provide that the
suspension of statutory requirements or deadlines shall not apply to defaults and nonsuits,
as the case may be, in civil matters or family matters pending before the Superior Court.
Unless otherwise specified herein, this order shall take effect immediately and remain in effect for
six months.
Dated at Hartford, Connecticut, this 21st day of August, 2020.

Ned Lamont
Governor

By His Excellency’s Command

__________________________
Denise W. Merrill
Secretary of the State

