                   PRELIMINARY PRINT

              Volume 604 U. S. Part 2
                             Pages 712–760




       OFFICIAL REPORTS
                                     OF


   THE SUPREME COURT
                               April 22, 2025


Page Proof Pending Publication


                    REBECCA A. WOMELDORF
                           reporter of decisions




    NOTICE: This preliminary print is subject to formal revision before
  the bound volume is published. Users are requested to notify the Reporter
  of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
  pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal errors.
712                     OCTOBER TERM, 2024

                                 Syllabus


      MONSALVO VELÁZQUEZ v. BONDI, ATTORNEY
                   GENERAL

certiorari to the united states court of appeals for
                 the tenth circuit
      No. 23–929. Argued November 12, 2024—Decided April 22, 2025
The federal government initiated removal proceedings against petitioner
  Monsalvo Velázquez, who asked the government to suspend its removal
  efforts or, alternatively, to permit him to leave the United States volun-
  tarily. The immigration judge concluded Monsalvo was removable but
  granted him an opportunity to voluntarily depart within 60 days.
  After the Board of Immigration Appeals rejected his appeal, it granted
  Monsalvo a new 60-day voluntary departure period. The 60th day fell
  on Saturday, December 11, 2021. Monsalvo fled a motion to reopen
  proceedings on Monday, December 13. The Board rejected that motion,
  concluding that the voluntary departure period had expired on Satur-
  day, and Monsalvo's motion was therefore too late. Monsalvo asked the
  Board to reconsider that conclusion, but the Board refused. Monsalvo
Page Proof Pending Publication
  then petitioned for judicial review in the Tenth Circuit. The Tenth Cir-
  cuit agreed with the Board, holding that the voluntary departure dead-
  line in 8 U. S. C. § 1229c(b)(2) refers to calendar days with no extension
  for deadlines that fall on weekends or holidays.
Held:
    1. This Court has jurisdiction to review Monsalvo's petition. Under
 § 1252, courts may review “fnal order[s] of removal” and “all questions
 of law” arising from them. Monsalvo's petition sought judicial review
 of a legal question about the meaning of a term in his fnal removal
 order—specifcally, the meaning of “60 days” for voluntary departure.
 Although Monsalvo did not challenge his removability, nothing in § 1252
 requires an individual to press a challenge to one term in a fnal order
 of removal just to secure judicial review of another. This Court rejects
 the government's argument that a petition must include a challenge to
 removability to secure judicial review. Such an interpretation would
 force litigants to assert meritless claims simply to obtain jurisdiction.
 Pp. 719–724.
    2. Under § 1229c(b)(2), a voluntary-departure deadline that falls on a
 weekend or legal holiday extends to the next business day. The Board
 and the Tenth Circuit understood “days” to bear the ordinary meaning
 of calendar days, no more or less. But evidence suggests a specialized
 meaning in legal settings where the term “days” is often understood to
