(Slip Opinion)              OCTOBER TERM, 2025                                       1

                                       Syllabus

         NOTE: Where it is feasible, a syllabus (headnote) will be released, as is
       being done in connection with this case, at the time the opinion is issued.
       The syllabus constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court but has been
       prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader.
       See United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 337.


SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

                                       Syllabus

      WEST VIRGINIA ET AL. v. B. P. J., BY HER NEXT
      FRIEND AND MOTHER, HEATHER JACKSON

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
                THE FOURTH CIRCUIT

     No. 24–43.     Argued January 13, 2026—Decided June 30, 2026*
The question before the Court in these cases is whether, under Title IX
  and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
  schools may maintain women’s and girls’ sports teams for biological
  females, i.e., may schools determine eligibility for female sports based
  on biological sex? In the past six years, 27 States have enacted laws
  that maintain female sports for biological females.
     In 2021, West Virginia enacted the Save Women’s Sports Act, which
  prohibits male students from playing on female teams. W. Va. Code
  Ann. §§18–2–25d(c)(2)–(3). The law specifies that sex is determined
  by biology. §§18–2–25d(a)(4), (b)(1). The legislature expressly found
  that prohibiting biological male participation in female sports is nec-
  essary to promote equal athletic opportunities for women and girls.
  See §§18–2–25d(a)(1), (3), (5). Respondent B. P. J., who identifies as
  female, is a biological male as defined by §§18–2–25d(a)(4), (b)(1).
  B. P. J. has sought to participate on the girls’ cross-country and track-
  and-field teams at school. B. P. J. sued West Virginia and relevant
  officials for alleged violations of Title IX and the Equal Protection
  Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The U. S. District Court for the
  Southern District of West Virginia granted summary judgment for the
  State on both claims. On appeal, the Fourth Circuit reversed on the
  Title IX issue and remanded for further fact-finding on the Equal Pro-
  tection Clause claim. 98 F. 4th 542.

——————
  *Together with No. 24–38, Little, Governor of Idaho, et al. v. Hecox et
al., on certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Cir-
cuit.
2                       WEST VIRGINIA v. B. P. J.

                                  Syllabus

       In 2020, Idaho enacted the Fairness in Women’s Sports Act, which
    prohibits male students from participating on female teams. Idaho
    Code Ann. §33–6203. The Idaho law states that sex is determined by
    biology. Ibid. And the law declares that “separate sex-specific teams
    furthers efforts to promote sex equality . . . by providing opportunities
    for female athletes.” §33–6202(12). It also recognizes the physical dif-
    ferences between biological males and biological females. §§33–
    6202(1)–(5), (7), (8), (10)–(12). The law further found that the benefit
    “that natural testosterone provides to male athletes is not diminished
    through the use of puberty blockers and cross-sex hormones.” §33–
    6202(11). Respondent Hecox, who identifies as female, is a biological
    male as defined by §33–6203. Hecox competed for the women’s club
    soccer team, and tried out for the women’s Division I track and cross-
    country teams. Shortly after Idaho enacted the Fairness in Women’s
    Sports Act, Hecox sued Idaho and relevant officials, alleging a violation
    of the Equal Protection Clause. The U. S. District Court for the Dis-
    trict of Idaho granted a preliminary injunction barring enforcement of
    the Fairness in Women’s Sports Act, and the Ninth Circuit affirmed.
    104 F. 4th 1061.
Held:
    1. Title IX allows schools to provide separate women’s and men’s
 sports teams defined by biological sex, and West Virginia has permis-
 sibly maintained female sports for biological females consistent with
 Title IX. Pp. 8–14.
    (a) Title IX provides: “No person in the United States shall, on the
 basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits
 of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or
 activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” 20 U. S. C. §1681(a).
 Two years after Title IX became law in 1972, Congress passed the
 Javits Amendment, which directed the then-Department of Health,
 Education, and Welfare (HEW) to promptly issue “regulations imple-
 menting the provisions of ” Title IX with respect to “the prohibition of
 sex discrimination.” §844, 88 Stat. 612. The amendment further spec-
 ified that the regulations “shall include with respect to” “athletic activ-
 ities reasonable provisions considering the nature of particular sports.”
 Ibid. (emphasis added). In 1975, HEW promulgated comprehensive
 regulations requiring that schools provide “equal athletic opportunity
 for members of both sexes” and authorizing “separate teams for mem-
 bers of each sex where selection for such teams is based upon compet-
 itive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport.” 34 CFR
 §§106.41(b), (c). Pp. 8–10.
    (b) The term “sex” in Title IX, the Javits Amendment, and the Title
 IX regulations cannot plausibly be interpreted to refer to anything
 other than biological sex. The ordinary meaning of the term “sex” at
                     Cite as: 609 U. S. ___ (2026)                        3

                                Syllabus

the time of enactment in the early 1970s was biological sex and not
gender identity, particularly in the sports context. See, e.g., Frontiero
v. Richardson, 411 U. S. 677, 686 (“sex” is “an immutable characteris-
tic”). In addition, the Title IX regulations allowed separate sports
teams precisely because of the inherent physical differences between
biological men and biological women.
   While B. P. J. agrees that Title IX permits schools to maintain sep-
arate female and male teams and to prohibit most biological males
from playing on women’s and girls’ teams, B. P. J. argues that schools
must make an exception to that general rule for biological males who
identify as female and have taken puberty blockers or hormones. But
the texts of Title IX, the Javits Amendment, and the Title IX regula-
tions do not support that argument, and do not speak to that issue in
a way that could properly be interpreted to require schools to allow
biological males to participate in women’s and girls’ sports.
   B. P. J. argues that if the regulations authorize a school to limit fe-
male sports teams to biological females without exception, then the
regulations are not “reasonable” as required by the Javits Amendment,
§844, 88 Stat. 612. The Court concludes that separate sports teams for
biological males and biological females are reasonable given the inher-
ent physical differences between the sexes. In assessing the reasona-
bleness of the regulations, the Court must recognize the distinctive-
ness of competitive sports—and the safety and competitive fairness
issues that can arise when females are forced to compete against
males. In recent years, 27 States and various sports-governing bodies
have all drawn the same line. Pp. 10–12.
   (c) The Court rejects B. P. J.’s two other Title IX-related arguments.
B. P. J. contends that the school’s policy violates Title IX because the
policy effectively excludes B. P. J. from any competitive sports teams
at the school. While it is an unhappy occasion whenever a student who
wants to play school sports cannot do so, the Title IX regulations guar-
antee only “equal athletic opportunity.”
   B. P. J. relies on Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C.
§2000e–2(a)(1), and Bostock v. Clayton County, 590 U. S. 644, as sup-
port for interpreting Title IX to require that schools allow biological
males on female teams. Title VII and Bostock are not relevant in this
very different statutory and factual context of sports. Pp. 13–14.
   2. West Virginia and Idaho did not violate the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment by maintaining female sports
teams for biological females. Pp. 14–25, 27–29.
   (a) The challenged West Virginia and Idaho laws make sex-based
classifications in limiting female teams to biological females. Under
this Court’s equal protection precedents, sex-based classifications are
permissible only when the classification is “substantially related” to
