(Slip Opinion)              OCTOBER TERM, 2025                                       1

                                       Syllabus

         NOTE: Where it is feasible, a syllabus (headnote) will be released, as is
       being done in connection with this case, at the time the opinion is issued.
       The syllabus constitutes no part of the opinion of the Court but has been
       prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader.
       See United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 337.


SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

                                       Syllabus

NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE
 ET AL. v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
                  THE SIXTH CIRCUIT

    No. 24–621.      Argued December 9, 2025—Decided June 30, 2026

The Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA) restricts a political party’s
  spending on campaign activities in coordination with candidates. 52
  U. S. C. §30116(d). In 2001, this Court upheld those coordinated-
  expenditure limits as consistent with the First Amendment. See Fed-
  eral Election Comm’n v. Colorado Republican Federal Campaign
  Comm., 533 U. S. 431 (Colorado II ). Petitioners—a group of candi-
  dates and political party committees—challenged FECA’s political-
  party coordinated-expenditure limits under the First Amendment, ar-
  guing that Colorado II is no longer good law. In light of Colorado II,
  the en banc U. S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit rejected peti-
  tioners’ First Amendment challenge. This Court granted certiorari.
Held: FECA’s political-party coordinated-expenditure limits violate the
 First Amendment. Pp. 6–26.
     (a) The Court has jurisdiction under Article III. At the outset of the
 litigation, at least one of the plaintiffs—then-candidate for Senate JD
 Vance—undisputedly had standing. Vice President Vance still main-
 tains an active “Statement of Candidacy” on file with the FEC indicat-
 ing his intent to run for Senate in 2028, as well as a campaign commit-
 tee that has raised money for a Senate race, establishing that this
 dispute is justiciable. Pp. 5–6.
     (b) The First Amendment provides that “Congress shall make no law
 . . . abridging the freedom of speech.” This Court has determined that
 political parties—as well as candidates, private individuals, and out-
 side groups—may make unlimited independent expenditures during
 political campaigns. See Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 39–59 (per cu-
 riam). This case concerns FECA’s limits on spending by political
2      NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE v.
                FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
                         Syllabus

    parties in coordination with candidates. Pp. 6–21.
         (1) FECA limits political-party coordinated expenditures. FECA’s
    limits impair the party’s traditional forms of communication such as
    advertisements; preclude parties from amplifying the voice of their ad-
    herents; impose additional monetary costs and burdens on political
    parties; and inflict a “stifling effect on the ability of the party to do
    what it exists to do.” Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Comm.
    v. Federal Election Comm’n, 518 U. S. 604, 630 (opinion of Kennedy,
    J.). Pp. 7–8.
       (2) Statutory limits on contributions to candidates or parties are
    subject to “closely drawn” scrutiny. McCutcheon v. Federal Election
    Comm’n, 572 U. S. 185, 197 (plurality opinion). To satisfy that stand-
    ard, a regulation may not be “disproportionate” and must be “neces-
    sary” and “narrowly tailored” to its asserted goal. Id., at 199, 218, 220;
    Federal Election Comm’n v. Ted Cruz for Senate, 596 U. S. 289, 306.
    The Court must assess: (i) the Government’s asserted interests in im-
    posing the limits at issue and (ii) the fit between the limits and the
    Government’s asserted interests. McCutcheon, 572 U. S., at 199.; see
    also Cruz, 596 U. S., at 305. The political-party coordinated-expendi-
    ture limits fail to satisfy the closely drawn test. Pp. 8–10.
       (3) To analyze FECA’s limits on political-party coordinated expendi-
    tures, the Court must first assess the asserted governmental interests
    justifying those limits. The Court’s precedents recognize only one con-
    stitutionally permissible government objective for campaign finance
    restrictions: “preventing corruption or the appearance of corruption.”
    McCutcheon, 572 U. S., at 206–207. And “Congress may target only a
    specific type of corruption—‘quid pro quo’ corruption.” Id., at 207. Par-
    ticularly relevant here, this Court has recognized the risk of quid pro
    quo corruption or its appearance when a donor’s contributions to a po-
    litical party are earmarked—that is, “are directed, in some manner, to
    a candidate or officeholder.” Id., at 211 (quotation marks omitted).
       Ultimately, the First Amendment question in this case boils down to
    whether FECA’s limits on political-party coordinated expenditures are
    permissible in order to prevent circumvention of the base limits on con-
    tributions to candidates through earmarked contributions to parties.
    In Colorado II, this Court said that they were. 533 U. S., at 462–463.
    But Colorado II applied deferential scrutiny to Congress’s political-
    party coordinated-expenditure limits. Id., at 463, n. 26, 465. Since
    Colorado II, however, the Court has emphasized that under the closely
    drawn test, judicial review must be “rigorous.” McCutcheon, 572 U. S.,
    at 197. Under that more demanding standard, the Court agrees with
    petitioners that the political-party coordinated-expenditure limits are
    not proportionate, necessary, and narrowly tailored given the other
    less-speech-restrictive tools available to the Government to prevent
