                                      CITY OF WORCESTER
                                   AGENDA OF THE CITY COUNCIL
                                     Tuesday, October 6, 2026
                                      Esther Howland (South) Chamber
                                                 6:30 P.M.

               Mayor                                                               City Manager
            Joseph M. Petty                                                            Eric D. Batista

                                                                                       City Auditor
            Councilors                                                             Robert V. Stearns
 Morris A. Bergman      Robert A. Bilotta
  Tony Economou         John P. Fresolo
 Khrystian E. King       Satya B. Mitra                                                 City Clerk
   Luis A. Ojeda         Jose A. Rivera       www.worcesterma.gov
                                                                                       Nikolin Vangjeli
    Gary Rosen        Kathleen M. Toomey




             Virtual Attendee Call-In Information: City Council Zoom Link:
     https://worcesterma.zoomgov.com/j/1613631913 City Council Zoom Phone
      Number: +1 646 828 7666 City Council Zoom Access Code: 161 363 1913
  _________________________________________________________________ To
     request a reasonable accommodation or interpretation or to submit written
comments or questions in advance of the meeting, please contact the City Clerk s
office by email at clerk@worcesterma.gov. Please note that interpretation requests
 must be received no later than 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Para solicitar
 una interpretaci n razonable, o enviar comentarios o preguntas por escrito antes
de las reuniones municipales, por favor comun quese con la oficina del Secretario
Municipal por correo electr nico a clerk@worcesterma.gov. Por favor note que las
  solicitudes de interpretaci n deber n ser enviadas 48 horas antes de la reuni n.
                                City Hall - 455 Main Street Worcester, Massachusetts




1.    PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

2.    STAR SPANGLED BANNER

3.    ROLL CALL

4.    PROCLAMATIONS,                        ACKNOWLEDGMENTS,            MOMENTS               OF
      SILENCE

5.    APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES

                     5a Adopt

         5a.         Order - That the City Council of the City of Worcester                               Attachments
                     hereby approves the minutes of the City Council Meeting of
                     September 22, 2026.

6.    PUBLIC PARTICIPATION - a person may speak for no more than
     two (2) minutes on any items appearing on the agenda



      6a.   Pursuant to Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 and in order to
            ensure active, public engagement, the City of Worcester
            currently allows for both in-person and remote participation at
            all City Council and Standing Committee meetings. To partake
            in the "Public Participation" section of the meeting, you may
            attend the meeting in-person within the meeting location, follow
            the below link to join via Zoom or dial the direct line as
            indicated. If you join a Zoom meeting by dialing in with a phone
            number, you can raise your hand by dialing *9.

            City              Council           Zoom                     Link:
            https://worcesterma.zoomgov.com/j/1613631913
            City Council Zoom Phone Number: +1 646 828 7666
            City Council Zoom Access Code: 161 363 1913

            Important Notice: Residents are advised of an ongoing scam
            involving the impersonation of city officials and departments.
            Scammers are fraudulently requesting payments be made for
            planning and zoning permits, as well as City Council petitions.
            All official emails regarding your petition will come exclusively
            from an @worcesterma.gov email address (such as
            clerk@worcesterma.gov), or via physical mail on the City of
            Worcester s official letterhead. Any legitimate hearing letter will
            always include your specific application details, along with the
            scheduled hearing date, time, and location. The City of
            Worcester will never request payments via wire transfer.

7.   HEARINGS AND ORDERS - 6:30 P.M.

            7a - 7c Hold Hearings and Adopt

      7a.   Hearing: CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS for a conduit                         Attachments
            location at: 135 KENBERMA RD.

            Granting permission to CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS for
            a conduit location at: 135 KENBERMA RD.



      7b.   Hearing: CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS for a conduit                         Attachments
            location at: LINCOLN ST.

            Granting permission to CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS for
            a conduit location at: LINCOLN ST.



      7c.   Hearing: NATIONAL GRID and VERIZON NEW ENGLAND,                       Attachments
            INC. for a jointly-owned pole at: BAUER ST.

            Granting permission to NATIONAL GRID and VERIZON
            NEW ENGLAND, INC. for a jointly-owned pole at: BAUER
            ST.

8.   RECONSIDERATION



      8a.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King - In accordance with       Attachments
            Rule 30 of the Rules of City Council, Councilor Khrystian E.
            King requests reconsideration of the vote of the City Council
            taken on September 29, 2026, in regard to the following
            item: ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King That the City
            Council of the City of Worcester does hereby adopt item
            #10g CC on the September 29, 2026 City Council agenda
            as amended to read as follows: Request City Manager help
            identify locations throughout the city and beginning in
            District 2 to create permanent public bathrooms, in the
            interest of providing necessary public health measures with
            respect to the human condition. Further, while said
            permanent public bathroom locations are identified and built,
            request City Manager determine suitable locations to install
            porta-potties as a temporary measure while awaiting the
            permanent bathroom installations. Further, request City
            Manager provide City Council with a report concerning the
            timeline associated with such actions. Further, request said
            process include community and business interfacing and
            feedback."

9.   PETITIONS - a Petitioner may speak up to three (3) minutes the
     first time their petition appears on an agenda

            9a - 9k Refer to Traffic and Parking Committee

      9a.   Genaro Vazquez request installation of a handicap parking       Attachments
            space in front of 11 Lodi St.



      9b.   Councilor Robert A. Bilotta on behalf of Caitlin Fontecchio     Attachments
            request installation of resident permit parking on Chilmark
            St. from Marshall St. to Seward St.



      9c.   Councilor Luis A. Ojeda on behalf of Jaqueline Alvarez          Attachments
            request removal of the handicap parking space in front of 1
            Kingsbury St.
9d.   Henry Proko request installation of speed humps on               Attachments
      Burncoat St. in the vicinity of 585A Burncoat St.



9e.   Almas Arias request installation of a handicap parking           Attachments
      space in front of 20 Worth St.



9f.   Joseph A. Ritacco request installation of stop signage at the    Attachments
      intersection of Byron St. and Edgeworth St.



9g.   Joseph A. Ritacco request installation of stop signage at the    Attachments
      intersection of Milton St. and Brookfield St.



9h.   Jennifer Memnon request installation of a handicap parking       Attachments
      space in front of 15 Arline St.



9i.   Abby Mortillaro request installation of a traffic light at the   Attachments
      intersection of Pleasant St. and Fruit St.



9j.   Councilor Tony Economou request installation of Right Turn       Attachments
      Only signage, Monday through Friday, from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m.
      and excluding holidays, on Chadwick St., opposite the end
      of the driveway at Francis J. McGrath Elementary School,
      located at 493 Grove St.



9k.   Councilor Jose A. Rivera request the two (2) existing            Attachments
      crosswalks in the vicinity of Heard Street Discovery
      Academy, located at 200 Heard St., be reviewed for the
      installation of flashing beacons at the locations (see
      attached for images of the crosswalks).

      9l - 9o Set Hearing for October 13, 2026 at 6:30 p.m.

9l.   NATIONAL GRID for a conduit location at: CHADWICK ST.            Attachments




9m.   NATIONAL GRID for a conduit location at: FRANKLIN ST. &          Attachments
      ARCTIC ST.
     9n.   NATIONAL GRID for a conduit location at: GRAFTON ST.           Attachments




     9o.   NATIONAL GRID for a conduit location at: PLEASANT ST.          Attachments


           9p Refer to Law Department to Prepare an Answer and Respond

     9p.   David Webb filing an Open Meeting Law Complaint Form.          Attachments

10. CHAIRMAN'S ORDERS

           10a - 10d Adopt

     10a. FROM THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SERVICE AND                        Attachments
          TRANSPORTATION - Request City Manager work with the
          Worcester Chamber of Commerce to explore principal
          sponsorships for WCCA TV.



     10b. FROM THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND PARKING -                     Attachments
          Request City Manager request Commissioner of
          Transportation and Mobility install statutory speed limit
          signage on Mountain St. West.



     10c. FROM THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND PARKING -                     Attachments
          Request City Manager request Commissioner of
          Transportation and Mobility install Do Not Enter signage on
          Lakewood St. at its intersecting roadways of Baker St.,
          Elmer St. and Manomet St.



     10d. FROM THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND PARKING -                     Attachments
          Request City Manager request Commissioner of
          Transportation and Mobility install statutory No Parking zone
          signage on Lakewood St. at each of its intersecting
          roadways of Baker St., Elmer St. and Manomet St.

11. CHAIRMAN'S RESOLUTION



     11a. FROM THE COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL AND                             Attachments
          LEGISLATIVE OPERATIONS - That the City Council does
          hereby encourage the efforts of members of the public to
          get the signatures of fifteen percent (15%) of the city s
          registered voters to request that the City of Worcester
          review and/or revise its present Charter, or to adopt a new
          Charter.
12. ORDERS



    12a.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of                      Attachments
           Transportation and Mobility review the entrance to Flagg St.
           from Pleasant St. for the purpose of providing City Council
           with a report concerning the feasibility and advisability of
           narrowing the road at the intersection, in an effort to slow
           down speeding vehicles and make drivers in the area more
           cautious (see attached). (Rivera)



    12b.   Request Standing Committee on Municipal and Legislative           Attachments
           Operations review the Rules of the City Council relative to
           public participation to discuss the feasibility of amending the
           Rules of City Council to have all City Council meetings
           begin at 5:30 p.m., with public participation occurring from
           the set time of 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. each meeting.
           (Rivera)



    12c.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of Public               Attachments
           Works provide emergency repairs to rebuild the required
           portion of the sidewalk and curb on King Philip Rd., a public
           way, as it intersects with Marmion Ave., a private way, to
           ensure the step is not 10 to 12 inches in height, in the
           interest of public safety (see attached). (Economou)



    12d.   Request City Manager provide City Council with a report           Attachments
           concerning Worcester Polytechnic Institute's (WPI)
           notification that will require students entering the school for
           the first time in the fall of 2026 and later to live on campus
           during their first and second years. Said report should
           include how this decision will affect the Hampton Inn and
           Marriott hotels the university purchased in 2024, the impact
           this decision may have on property owners who have
           invested in student housing around the school, and how this
           decision could impact businesses in the area. (Economou)



    12e.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of Public               Attachments
           Works review and repair the entire length of the sidewalk in
           front of 2 Biltmore Rd., which was recently replaced with
           asphalt instead of concrete, and left the area wavy, uneven
           and damaged surrounding concrete at the location (see
           attached). (Rivera)
12f.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of Parks,                  Attachments
       Recreation and Cemetery provide City Council with a report
       concerning the feasibility of hiring outside contractors to
       eliminate the backlog of trees approved for removal but
       have not been taken down. (Fresolo)



12g.   Request City Manager provide City Council with an update             Attachments
       concerning a previously adopted Order from February 3,
       2026, which read, Request City Manager request Chief
       Development Officer provide City Council with an update
       concerning the former St. Vincent Hospital nursing
       dormitory being developed/converted into affordable
       housing for senior citizens. (Fresolo)



12h.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of Public                  Attachments
       Works provide City Council with a report concerning the
       feasibility of installing turf, in lieu of grass, on Massasoit Rd.
       when configuring each new sidewalk location on the road.
       Said turf should be installed at each intersection
       redeveloped throughout the resurfacing/construction project
       on the road. (Fresolo)



12i.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of Public                  Attachments
       Works provide City Council with a report concerning the
       feasibility of utilizing the city s long patch resurfacing
       program to repave Vernon St. from Windham St. to Fifth
       Ave. during Fiscal Year 2027 (FY27). (Fresolo)



12j.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of Public                  Attachments
       Works contact MassDOT to ensure the college/university
       wayfinding signage when exiting I-290 from Belmont St. is
       updated to reflect that Becker College and Anna Maria
       College are no longer operating. (Toomey)



12k.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of                         Attachments
       Transportation and Mobility provide City Council with a
       report detailing the potential of an on-street parking plan
       that would allow residents to be able to park along Burncoat
       St., where feasible. (Economou)
12l.   Request City Manager work with the Budget Director to             Attachments
       identify and apply for federal grant monies available to
       address environmental issues throughout the city. (Rivera)



12m. Request City Manager review and address concerns related            Attachments
     to stormwater runoff from Cooks Pond in the vicinity of
     Juniper Rd., Olean St., and the Cooks Pond Dam, where
     the outflow of water has created a delta due to lack of
     containment or collection. (Rivera)



12n.   Request City Manager review and report to City Council            Attachments
       concerning the feasibility of installing rain gardens in the
       vicinity of Circuit Ave. West and Gates Ln. (Rivera)



12o.   Request City Manager provide City Council with a report           Attachments
       concerning whether the city has any regulatory authority to
       either control or prevent Amazon from launching their
       package-delivery MK30 drones, which are designed to
       deliver shoebox-sized products weighing under five (5)
       pounds from thirteen (13) feet and are six (6) propeller, five-
       by-five (5-by-5) foot machines that are capable of reaching
       seventy five (75) miles per hour, from their Westborough
       distribution center into large portions of Worcester. Said
       report should include information concerning how residents
       will be surveyed to discuss the potential effects this project
       will have on the city s community and neighborhoods,
       including environmental, privacy, and safety concerns.
       (Rosen)



12p.   Number Not Used.



12q.   Request City Manager provide City Council with a report           Attachments
       concerning the impact of individual Medicare insurance
       plans being eliminated. Further, request City Manager
       include in said report information concerning transition
       plans available to residents to ensure they are not
       negatively impacted by any loss of such plans. (Petty)



12r.   Request City Manager provide City Council with a report           Attachments
       concerning the department s street sweeping operations.
       (Bilotta)
12s.   Request City Manager request Commissioner of Parks,            Attachments
       Recreation and Cemetery conduct monthly cleanings of the
       median on Hamilton St. (Bilotta)



12t.   Request City Manager consider creating and installing          Attachments
       Welcome to Worcester Heart of the Commonwealth and
       Leaving Worcester Come Back Soon signs at all major
       entry and exit points along the city s borders with Auburn,
       Holden, Leicester, Millbury, Shrewsbury, and West
       Boylston. (see attached for potential locations). (Mitra)



12u.   Request City Manager provide City Council with a report        Attachments
       concerning the impact separating the various functions of
       the Department of Public Works (DPW) into the Department
       of Transportation and Mobility (DTM), the Department of
       Parks, Recreation and Cemetery (DPRC), as well as the
       subdivisions within DPW including the Streets Division,
       Water and Sewer Operations Division, and the Engineering
       Division, has had on the delivery of city services. Further,
       request said report include 1) an inventory of assets,
       equipment, vehicles, facilities, staffing functions, and
       maintenance responsibilities that were previously shared
       within DPW; 2) how those resources and responsibilities
       have been allocated among each respective department
       and division since each section of the department was
       separated; and 3) what additional equipment, staffing,
       facilities, or other operational resources may now be
       needed as a result of said resources no longer being
       shared. (Mitra)



12v.   Request City Manager provide City Council with an update       Attachments
       concerning the status of the overgrowth in Elm Park s pond,
       including an explanation of the environmental concerns
       involved, timelines for addressing those concerns, and
       information on any actions being taken regarding the pond s
       water level. (Ojeda)



12w. Request City Manager request Commissioner of                     Attachments
     Transportation and Mobility provide City Council with a
     report detailing the ninety (90) day trial period for the
     installation of four-way stop signs at several locations in
     Worcester, including the intersection of June St., Brownell
     St., and Hadwen Rd. Said report should include, but not be
           limited to, information pertaining to when the ninety (90) trial
           period will occur, what resident input will be used to
           measure the success of the stop sign controls and what
           criteria will be used to determine if the stop signs are
           warranted on a permanent basis. (Bergman)



    12x.   Request City Manager consider ensuring two (2) Worcester           Attachments
           Police Department (WPD) police academy classes are
           completed and ready for work before the end of calendar
           year 2027. Said considerations should include using funds
           from Fiscal Year 2027 (FY27) for one class, and Fiscal Year
           2028 (FY28) for the other. (Bergman)



    12y.   Request City Manager, in consultation with relevant city           Attachments
           departments, outreach providers, and people with lived
           experience, develop a plan to clean designated hotspots
           that also responds to the needs of unsheltered residents
           and the housing crisis. Further, request City Manager
           coordinate cleanups with respectful outreach, advance
           communication where practicable, connections to shelter,
           services, and housing. Further, request City Manager track
           the following: 1) number of cleanups; 2) 311 response times
           associated with cleanups; 3) debris and overflow; 4) repeat
           cleanups; 5) cleanliness scores; 6) complaints about
           cleanliness; 7) outreach contacts and/or service housing
           connections, where available. (King)



    12z.   Request City Manager develop clear guidance related to             Attachments
           when businesses should contact 311 or 911 that includes
           information related to how said businesses can request
           outreach related to emergencies involving unsheltered
           individuals. Further, request said guidance ensures non-
           emergency concerns involving unsheltered people can be
           routed to trained outreach teams, with 911 being reserved
           for emergencies. Further, request City Manager consult
           businesses, outreach providers, relevant city departments,
           and people with lived experience when developing said
           guidance. Further, request the following information be
           tracked as part of said guidance: 1) businesses reached; 2)
           routing times; 3) misdirected non-emergency calls; 4) first-
           visit resolutions; 5) connections to services, shelter, or
           housing, when available. (King)

13. RESOLUTION
    13a. That the City Council of the City of Worcester does hereby        Attachments
         go on record commending MassDOT District 3 Highway
         Director for Central Massachusetts Barry J. Lorion for his
         support in ensuring the portion of McKeon Road under I-290
         be resurfaced. (Fresolo)

14. REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE                 ON     MUNICIPAL      AND
    LEGISLATIVE OPERATIONS

          14a - 14f Accept

    14a. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL AND                          Attachments
         LEGISLATIVE OPERATIONS Upon the Order of Councilor
         Gary Rosen, Councilor Morris A. Bergman, Councilor
         Robert A. Bilotta, Councilor Tony Economou, Councilor
         John P. Fresolo, Councilor Khrystian E. King, Councilor
         Satya B. Mitra, Councilor Luis A. Ojeda, Councilor Jose A.
         Rivera, Councilor Kathleen M. Toomey and Mayor Joseph
         M. Petty - Request Standing Committee on Municipal and
         Legislative Operations hold a public hearing to determine
         the feasibility and advisability of the City Council initiating
         and/or supporting efforts to review the current modified Plan
         E City Charter, which was implemented in 1987 and
         amended in 2022: recommend Order be placed on file.



    14b. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL AND                          Attachments
         LEGISLATIVE OPERATIONS Upon the Communication of
         the City Clerk transmitting an informational communication
         relative to various options available for making changes to
         the City Charter: recommend Communication be placed on
         file.



    14c. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL AND                          Attachments
         LEGISLATIVE OPERATIONS Upon the Communication of
         the City Clerk transmitting an informational communication
         detailing possible charter changes that could be done
         without the creation of a Charter Review Commission,
         charter changes that require approval of such a
         commission, as well as City Council s role in passing
         ordinance changes: recommend Communication be placed
         on file.



    14d. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL AND                          Attachments
         LEGISLATIVE OPERATIONS Upon the Communication of
         the City Clerk transmitting an informational communication
         relative to the process required to place a non-binding
           question on the ballot of the upcoming local election:
           recommend Communication be placed on file.



    14e. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL AND                        Attachments
         LEGISLATIVE OPERATIONS Upon the Communication of
         the City Clerk transmitting an informational communication
         relative to advertisements for the Standing Committee on
         Municipal and Legislative Operations meeting on Monday,
         September 28, 2026 related to a discussion of the City
         Charter: recommend Communication be placed on file.



    14f.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL AND                      Attachments
           LEGISLATIVE OPERATIONS Upon the Communication of
           the City Clerk transmitting an informational communication
           concerning resident testimony brought forth at the Monday,
           August 17, 2026 Standing Committee on Municipal and
           Legislative Operations meeting related to the discussion of
           a potential review of the City Charter: recommend
           Communication be placed on file.

15. REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SERVICE AND
    TRANSPORTATION

           15a Accepted and Adopt

    15a. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SERVICE                       Attachments
         AND TRANSPORTATION Upon the Order of Councilor
         Gary Rosen - Request City Manager provide City Council
         with an update concerning the current state of negotiations
         for a new cable contract with Spectrum. The previous
         agreement, which expired in October 2023, was marred by
         Spectrum's contract violations, poor customer service, poor
         cable reliability and failure to provide contractual senior
         discounts, among others: recommend adoption of the
         accompanying Order.

           15b Accept

    15b. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SERVICE                       Attachments
         AND TRANSPORTATION Upon the Report of the
         Committee on Public Service and Transportation Upon the
         Order of Councilor Morris A. Bergman and Councilor Candy
         Mero-Carlson - Request Standing Committee on Public
         Service and Transportation Committee hold a public
         discussion with the WRTA Administrator relative to the
         removal of a bus route that passes the EcoTarium, 222
         Harrington Way: recommend Report be placed on file.
16. REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND PARKING

            16a Advertise proposed Ordinance

     16a.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                        Attachments
            PARKING Upon the Communication of the City Manager
            recommending adoption of the proposed ordinance
            amendment to establish a tow zone on portions of Albany
            Street and Fantasia Drive: recommend passage of the
            accompanying proposed Ordinance.

            16b - 16t Accept

     16b.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                        Attachments
            PARKING Upon the Petition of Daily Toribio request
            installation of a handicap parking space with ADA
            accessible curb cut at 62 Circuit Ave. North: recommend
            Petition be placed on file.



     16c.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                        Attachments
            PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Tony Economou
            on behalf of Sheila Reid request traffic enforcement of the
            stop signs at the intersection of Beechmont St. and
            Bancroft Tower Rd., in the interest in public safety:
            recommend Petition be placed on file.



     16d.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                        Attachments
            PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Tony Economou
            on behalf of Bill Hurley request increased speed
            enforcement on West Chester St., in the interest of public
            safety: recommend Petition be placed on file.



     16e.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                        Attachments
            PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Jose A. Rivera on
            behalf of Christine Dolat request increased speed and
            traffic enforcement on Delawanda Dr., in an effort to deter
            speeding and illegal vehicle use in the neighborhood:
            recommend Petition be placed on file.



     16f.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                        Attachments
            PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Tony Economou
            on behalf of Ronald Prapuolenis request increased speed
            enforcement on Mountain St. West between West Boylston
            St. and Pullman St.: recommend Petition be placed on file.
16g.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                         Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Tony Economou
       on behalf of Ronald Prapuolenis request installation of
       Thickly Settled signage on Mountain St. West in the vicinity
       of West Boylston St. and Pullman St.: recommend Petition
       be placed on file.



16h.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                         Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Jenny Pacillo
       request installation of traffic calming signage at the
       intersection of Saxon Rd. and Westbrook Rd.: recommend
       Petition be placed on file.



16i.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                         Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Francel Hollins et al. request
       installation of resident permit parking on the odd side of
       Providence St. from Dorchester St. to South St. Further,
       request installation of No Parking Anytime signage on the
       even side of Providence St. from Dorchester St. to South
       St. (Amended August 19, 2026): recommend Petition be
       placed on file.



16j.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                         Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Jillian St. Pierre request
       removal of "No Parking Anytime" restriction on Theodore
       Tonna St.: recommend Petition be placed on file.



16k.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                         Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor John P. Fresolo
       on behalf of Devan Wilson request No Parking Anytime
       signage on the even side of McGill St. be removed:
       recommend Petition be placed on file.



16l.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                         Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Francis Dufault request
       installation of a four-way stop sign at the intersection of
       Grove St. and Chester St.: recommend Petition be placed
       on file.



16m. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                           Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Kim Ashe request
       installation of a green right arrow on Stafford St. at its
       intersection with James St.: recommend Petition be placed
       on file.



16n.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                           Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Thomas Vincent request the
       traffic lights at the intersection of Shore Dr. and Norton Dr.
       be reviewed for the purpose of extending the Shore Dr. light
       turning onto Norton Dr.: recommend Petition be placed on
       file.



16o.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                           Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Thomas Vincent request the
       green left turn signal on Shore Dr. at its intersection with
       Holden St. be extended: recommend Petition be placed on
       file.



16p.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                           Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Mike Rejaey request
       installation of a designated right turn lane on Bigelow Davis
       Parkway at its intersection with Lake Ave.: recommend
       Petition be placed on file.



16q.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                           Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Jose A. Rivera on
       behalf of Caitlyn Austin request installation of resident
       permit parking on Beaver Brook Pkwy: recommend Petition
       be placed on file.



16r.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                           Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Tony Economou
       request installation of No Left Turn signage on Grove St. for
       access to Lansing Ave.: recommend Petition be placed on
       file.



16s.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                           Attachments
       PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Tony Economou
       request installation of No Left Turn signage on Holden St.
       for access to Lansing Ave.: recommend Petition be placed
       on file.
     16t.   REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC AND                           Attachments
            PARKING Upon the Petition of Councilor Kathleen M.
            Toomey on behalf of Catherine Flagg request Fales St. at
            its intersection with Leeds St. be reviewed for speed
            calming measures, including the potential for the installation
            of speed humps and additional stop signs: recommend
            Petition be placed on file.

17. HELD UNDER PRIVILEGE



     17a. ORDER of Councilor Gary Rosen - Request City Manager               Attachments
          and Chief Development Officer explain to the City Council at
          its September 22, 2026 meeting why Optiline Enterprises, a
          commercial drywall and metal framing subcontractor with
          documented violations of labor and employment laws, is
          being allowed to work on the 364-unit residential complex
          being built on 274 Franklin St., which is a project heavily
          supported by $11 million in local property tax relief over
          fifteen (15) years, as Optiline was previously banned from
          taxpayer-funded projects in Worcester in June 2025 due to
          documented violations including wage theft, paying
          employees under the table, failing to pay proper overtime
          rates to tradespeople working over forty (40) hours a week,
          and tax/insurance fraud. Said explanation should address
          whether Optiline's work on the aforementioned project is in
          violation of Worcester's Responsible Development
          Ordinance, a law mandating that developers receiving
          municipal tax relief or Tax Increment Exemption (TIE)
          benefits cannot hire contractors with documented labor or
          wage violations within the past three years. (Held Under
          Privilege - Rosen September 22, 2026 and Held Under
          Privilege - King September 29, 2026)



     17b. ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King - Request City                Attachments
          Manager help identify locations throughout the city and
          beginning in District 2 to create permanent public
          bathrooms, in the interest of providing necessary public
          health measures with respect to the human condition.
          Further, while said permanent public bathroom locations are
          identified and built, request City Manager determine suitable
          locations to install porta-potties as a temporary measure
          while awaiting the permanent bathroom installations. (Held
          Under Privilege - King September 22, 2026 and September
          29, 2026)
     17c. ORDER of Councilor Morris A. Bergman That the City              Attachments
          Council of the City of Worcester does hereby adopt item
          #10g CC on the September 29, 2026 City Council as
          amended to read as follows: Request City Manager
          consider a process to help identify locations throughout the
          city and beginning in District 2 to create permanent public
          bathrooms, in the interest of providing necessary public
          health measures with respect to the human condition.
          Further, while said permanent public bathroom locations are
          being considered, identified and built, request City Manager
          consider a process to determine suitable locations to install
          porta-potties as a temporary measure while awaiting the
          permanent bathroom installations. (Held Under Privilege -
          King September 29, 2026)



     17d. ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City               Attachments
          Manager provide City Council with a copy of the Downtown
          Worcester Business Improvement District (BID) Downtown
          Worcester Quality of Life study, which includes an analysis
          of the potentiality of opening a public restroom in the
          downtown area. (Held Under Privilege - King September 29,
          2026)

18. TABLED ITEMS



     18a. ORDER of Councilor Konstantina B. Lukes - Request City          Attachments
          Manager request City Solicitor provide City Council with a
          legal opinion regarding the process of instituting a
          residential rent control program and the resulting impact of
          implementing such a program. (Held Under Privilege -
          Lukes September 17, 2019 and September 24, 2019 and
          Tabled - Lukes October 15, 2019)



     18b. RESOLUTION of Councilor Khrystian E. King - That the City       Attachments
          Council of the City of Worcester does hereby support
          Representative Rebecca Rauch and Senator Sonia Chang-
          Diaz s SD 699 HD 1283, An Act effectuating equity in
          COVID-19 Vaccination Bill. (Held Under Privilege - Bergman
          February 9, 2021 and Tabled - Bergman February 23, 2021)



     18c. ORDER of Councilor Etel Haxhiaj and Councilor Thu               Attachments
          Nguyen - Request City Manager work with appropriate
          departments and stakeholders to establish an Office of
          Housing Stability in an effort to prevent the involuntary
             displacement of city residents who are in the process of
             being evicted or at the risk of losing their housing, as well as
             to enact policies to combat displacement, homelessness
             and enhance tenants rights. (Held Under Privilege - Haxhiaj
             July 18, 2023 and Tabled - Haxhiaj August 22, 2023)



      18d. PETITION of Gordon Davis request City Council request                 Attachments
           Standing Committee on Public Safety investigate the issue
           of systemic racism and public safety with public hearings
           included. (Tabled - Toomey May 14, 2024)



      18e. ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King - Request City                   Attachments
           Manager conduct an equity audit of all city departments
           every five (5) years. (Held Under Privilege - Mero-Carlson
           December 10, 2024 and Held Under Privilege - Toomey
           December 17, 2024 and Tabled - Nguyen January 7, 2025)



      18f.   COMMUNICATION of the City Manager transmitting                      Attachments
             informational communication relative to how the U.S.
             Department of Justice's report on the Worcester Police
             Department differs from the account of the municipality.
             (Held Under Privilege - King April 29, 2025 and May 6, 2025
             and Tabled - King May 13, 2025)

19. BUSINESS UNDER SUSPENSION OF RULES - Items brought
    forth under suspension at the September 29, 2026 City Council
    meeting.



      19a.   ORDER of Councilor Luis A. Ojeda Request City Manager
             work with the Police Chief and Superintendent of Public
             Schools to provide youth in the city with helmets, as part of
             an educational pilot program to ensure they are traversing in
             the city s streets in a safe manner. Item #13a CC Order
             adopted on a roll call vote of 11 Yeas and 0 Nays



      19b.   ORDER of Councilor Satya B. Mitra Request City Manager
             request Fire Chief work with the Commissioner of Public
             Works to ensure there is a notification on the city s website
             explaining the city is in good standing with its fire hydrants
             and equipped to act in an emergency situation anywhere in
             the city, in an effort to ensure residents are not alarmed if
             they are located in close proximity to a fire hydrant that is not
             functioning. Item #13b CC Order adopted
19c.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
       Manager work with the Fire Chief and Commissioner of
       Public Works to provide City Council with a report detailing
       data related to the city s maintenance/repair program for fire
       hydrants. Said data should be sorted in terms of levels of
       need/concern. Item #13c CC Order adopted



19d.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
       Manager work with the Fire Chief and Commissioner of
       Public Works to provide City Council with a report detailing
       whether there is a tiering program related to the risk or
       inoperability of the city s thirty-nine (39) non-functioning fire
       hydrants. Item #13d CC Order adopted



19e.   ORDER of Councilor Luis A. Ojeda Request City Manager
       work with the Fire Chief and Commissioner of Public Works
       to provide City Council with a list detailing the location of
       each fire hydrant in the city that is currently inoperable. Item
       #13e CC Order adopted



19f.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
       Manager provide City Council with a report detailing any
       potential advantages associated with installing speed
       cushions, in lieu of speed humps, in an effort to allow public
       safety vehicles the opportunity to more effectively navigate
       city streets. Item #13f CC Order adopted



19g.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
       Manager request Commissioner of Transportation and
       Mobility provide City Council with a report concerning the
       feasibility of piloting a hybrid beacon system at crosswalks
       along Lake Ave., including in the vicinity of Madulka s Ice
       Cream, located at 193 Lake Ave. Item #13g CC Order
       adopted



19h.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
       Manager provide City Council with a report detailing
       evidence-based research of the pros and cons of using
       ghost police vehicles as a traffic calming tactic in the city.
       Item #13h CC Order adopted
19i.   ORDER of Mayor Joseph M. Petty Request City Manager
       provide City Council with a report concerning how the
       Worcester Police Department (WPD) is maintaining and
       recruiting additional police officers in the city. Further,
       request said report include information concerning any
       available grant funding that could be available to aid the
       department in their recruitment efforts. Item #13i CC Order
       adopted



19j.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
       Manager request Police Chief provide City Council with a
       report concerning Cadet Programs used in other
       municipalities that may be a more effective model than what
       was used in the city s program that is no longer utilized. Item
       #13j CC Order adopted



19k.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
       Manager provide City Council with a report detailing the
       efforts of the Massachusetts Municipal Association (MMA) to
       advocate for more funding to support school building projects
       in gateway cities, including the Burncoat School Building
       Project. Item #13k CC Order adopted



19l.   ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
       Manager provide City Council with a report concerning the
       projected annual payments required of the city s taxpayers
       due to anticipated obligations associated with the city s
       fifteen-million-dollar ($15,000,000.00) commitment to the
       New High School Fund, which will financially prepare the city
       to pay for a new Burncoat School Building Project. Item #13l
       CC Order adopted



19m. ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
     Manager provide City Council with a report detailing the prior
     organization and role of the CSX Neighborhood
     Improvement Fund Advisory Committee. Item #13m CC
     Order adopted on a roll call vote of 11 Yeas and 0 Nays



19n.   ORDER of Councilor Morris A. Bergman That the City
       Council of the City of Worcester does hereby adopt item
       #10g CC on the September 29, 2026 City Council as
                 amended to read as follows: Request City Manager consider
                 a process to help identify locations throughout the city and
                 beginning in District 2 to create permanent public bathrooms,
                 in the interest of providing necessary public health measures
                 with respect to the human condition. Further, while said
                 permanent public bathroom locations are being considered,
                 identified and built, request City Manager consider a process
                 to determine suitable locations to install porta-potties as a
                 temporary measure while awaiting the permanent bathroom
                 installations. Item #13n Held Under Privilege



         19o.    ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King That the City Council
                 of the City of Worcester does hereby adopt item #10g CC on
                 the September 29, 2026 City Council as amended to read as
                 follows: Request City Manager help identify locations
                 throughout the city and beginning in District 2 to create
                 permanent public bathrooms, in the interest of providing
                 necessary public health measures with respect to the human
                 condition. Further, while said permanent public bathroom
                 locations are identified and built, request City Manager
                 determine suitable locations to install porta-potties as a
                 temporary measure while awaiting the permanent bathroom
                 installations. Further, request City Manager provide City
                 Council with a report concerning the timeline associated with
                 such actions. Further, request said process include
                 community and business interfacing and feedback. Item
                 #13o Order denied on a roll call vote of 5 Yeas and 6 Nays



         19p.    ORDER of Councilor Khrystian E. King Request City
                 Manager provide City Council with a copy of the Downtown
                 Worcester Business Improvement District (BID) Downtown
                 Worcester Quality of Life study, which includes an analysis
                 of the potentiality of opening a public restroom in the
                 downtown area. Item #13p Held Under Privilege


                        Scheduled Meetings of the Standing Committees

Tuesday, Oct. 6, 2026       Veterans' Memorials, Parks and Recreation                        Esther Howland (South)
05:00 PM -                  Committee                                                               Chamber
                            Chairperson John P. Fresolo, Robert A. Bilotta, Jose A. Rivera
                               



                               
Wednesday, Oct. 7, 2026     Public Works Committee                                           Esther Howland (South)
05:00 PM -                  Chairperson Tony Economou, John P. Fresolo, Satya B. Mitra              Chamber
                               
                       


Contact Info: Worcester City Clerk City Hall Room 206 455 Main Street Worcester,
             MA 01608 Phone: 508-799-1124 clerk@worcesterma.gov
